Readme.md, before:

# Application:  IOS Android with Common c++ library Iacpp
This App is to demonstrate Android IOS using common c++ library.
# Build Instructions.

# Android
	1. Install SDK and SDK and set the NDK path and sdk path in environment variables.
	2. Download the code and build.
# Static library for IOS.
```
 Install  ios cmake toolchain from here https://github.com/cristeab/ios-cmake

Unzip the ios.Cmake into folder similar to $NDK_ROOT/toolchains/IOS


 To build the ios libraries from these libraries, use the below commands . after the build copy out the 4 header files to attach with static library.
 after that attach the libraries to the ios project and add header files to ios project.


$ rmdir buildios
$ mkdir buildios
$ cd  buildios
$ cmake .. -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=$NDK_ROOT/toolchains/IOS/iOS.cmake -DIOS_PLATFORM=OS
$ make
$ cmake .. -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=$NDK_ROOT/toolchains/IOS/iOS.cmake -DIOS_PLATFORM=SIMULATOR64
$ make
```

Now check the distribution folder you should see the folder /IOS/SIMULATOR64 AND /IOS/OS with the libraries.
Copy the libraries to the iOS project along with the header files below and build. By default the files were added to the project. 

```
$ copy these 4 header files to the ios project. .
$ /src/main/cpp/ContactsCore/api/ContactsCoreApi.hpp
$ /src/main/cpp/ContactsCore/model/Contact.hpp
$ /src/main/cpp/JsonLib/JSON.hpp
$ /src/main/cpp/JsonLib/JSONValue.hpp

```
	
# IOS

Import the project in Xcode and check for static libraries and header files and build. 

# Architecture
#  -------------------------------Java---------------------
# Java UI:
## Java sources:

### Root: src/java/com.sheshu.iacpp

```
view/ContactListActivity -- Launch activity wich will hold the ContactListActivityFragment .
view/ContactListActivityFragment -- Fragment which will hold the Ui for listview to show the contacts.
view/ContactListAdapter -- ListAdapter for the contact list.
```
```
model/ContactsListener -- Listener interface, used to call from the static callbacks from JNI.
model/ContactsSDK -- SDK interface, interface to the JNI layer and calls.
model/JContact -- Contact definition with firstname, lastname, phone number
```
```
controller/Controller is base controller interface, which is implemented in ContactListActivityFragment.java
```

# Execution:
```
 ContactListActivity loads  ContactListActivityFragment. Which initializes controller and other views.
 ContactListActivity loads the jni library 'contactsSdk-lib'. As soon as fragment loaded, will call
 the native get contacts, addContact, notifyContact methods.

 native GetContacts will get the contacts syncronously. And will be loaded in the Listview in the ContactListActivityFragment.
 getContacts->native getContacts->reply fron native-> post to list with ContactsListAdapter.

 native addContact will add the contact in a std::thread with delay and report back to static method ContactsSDK->onContactAdded,
  This method will call the notifier method in the ContactListActivityFragment. And will show the toast after update in ui thread.
 ContactsSDK->onContactAdded->(ContactsListener)->onContactAdded->Toast to user.

  native notifyContactUpdated will do the similar call as above, where the last contact's phone number
  will be delayed and posted to the UI through the callback.
 ContactsSDK->onContactUpdated->(ContactsListener)->onContactUpdated->Toast to user.
```
##   ------------------- Native layer----------------------

## Root: main/cpp

 Native layer is bult into two parts, ContactsCore& JsonLib in a shared object and ContactsJni as container shared object.

###  ContactsJni
    contactsSdkJni.cpp the glue code between java and c libraries. conversions from c to java contacts and other glue code. native api interfaces,
    callbacks for native code, which intern call java layer present here.

### ContactsCore
   #### api
        Core api to call, which will talk to mock webservice.
        ContactsCoreApi.cpp -- core api, called from JNI.
        ContactsCoreApi.h -- core api header file.
   #### model
        Contact.cpp/h Model for Contact, which is used in native and objective-c
   #### webservice
        ContactWebService.cpp/h mock webservice to 
         1. load contacts using json parser from string,
         2. return contacts from memory for getContacts call.
         3. spawn a std::thread for addContact and contactUpdated calls.

   #### JsonLib
    json lib from https://github.com/MJPA/SimpleJSON

#    ---------------------------------IOS layer----------------

## IacppI is the iOS project. 
```
    The static library for core generates 'contacts-core-lib' static library. It will be exported to ..\distribution folder.
    Add the files the static libraries under Iacpp/distribution/contacts-core-lib/lib/IOS and /SIMULATOR64 to Xcode project.
    Along with the header files mentioned above. And build the iOS project in Xcode. Check for any stale references. 	    

    UI is not developed in IOS. code is tested in from the logs.
```
# File details:
    Core lib structure is similar to the above in the project folders(not on disk, only for project visibility).
        ContactsIOSAPI - glue code for IOS.
        ContactsApiIos.cpp/hpp files to expose the interface with ios code. Similar to contactsSdkJni.cpp.
    ViewController.mm -- the code where this api is called and logs printed from here.
# ------------------------Technology items used for this project---
    1. JNI.
    2. call back from different thread using std::thread
    3. attach the callback thread to the jvm to callback.
    4. static listener with listener interface.
    5. controller to manage these calls.
    6. a simple activity, fragment, listview, adapter, viewholder pattern.
    7. cmake to build static library, export out library, build with container shared library.
    8. Android app to test the calls and post to UI.
    9. ios code to test the calls and print to log.
    10. toolchain to build ios compatible library from android studio.
    11. attaching .a to the ios project.
   
# ------------------------what can be done further---------------
    1. ui for ios, listview/tableview.
    2. code formatter for ios.
    3. in Xcode adding files with relative path from android project instead of absolute path. 
    4. junit and expresso recorder tests.

Commit message:

1.Fixed IOS build. 2.Added build script for IOS and attached to the build.gradle. now every assemble debug will build the iOS library. 3. refactored android code.

Readme.md, after:

# Application:  IOS Android with Common c++ library Iacpp
This App is to demonstrate Android IOS using common c++ library.
# Build Instructions.

# Android
	1. Install SDK and SDK and set the NDK path and sdk path in environment variables.
	2. Download the code and build.
# Static library for IOS.
```
 Install  ios cmake toolchain from here https://github.com/cristeab/ios-cmake

Unzip the ios.Cmake into folder similar to $NDK_ROOT/toolchains/IOS . Correct the path in the iosbuild.sh file in /app.

IOS build is added as task to the build.gradle. Add the libraries once without copying to the IOS project. 
in /app add executable permission ( chmod +x ./iosbuild.sh) for file iosbuild.sh and run android project.
 It will build the IOS libraries at the end of the android build.
After the build link 4 header files and static libraries to the IOS project and build IOS project in Xcode.


```

Now check the distribution folder you should see the folder /IOS/SIMULATOR64 AND /IOS/OS with the libraries.
Copy the libraries to the iOS project along with the header files below and build. By default the files were added to the project. 

```
$ copy these 4 header files to the ios project. .
$ /src/main/cpp/ContactsCore/api/ContactsCoreApi.hpp
$ /src/main/cpp/ContactsCore/model/Contact.hpp
$ /src/main/cpp/JsonLib/JSON.hpp
$ /src/main/cpp/JsonLib/JSONValue.hpp

```
	
# IOS

Import the project in Xcode and check for static libraries and header files and build. 

# Architecture

#  Java
# Java UI:
## Java sources:

### Root: src/java/com.sheshu.iacpp

```
view/ContactListActivity -- Launch activity wich will hold the ContactListActivityFragment .
view/ContactListActivityFragment -- Fragment which will hold the Ui for listview to show the contacts.
view/ContactListAdapter -- ListAdapter for the contact list.
```
```
model/ContactsListener -- Listener interface, used to call from the static callbacks from JNI.
model/ContactsSDK -- SDK interface, interface to the JNI layer and calls.
model/JContact -- Contact definition with firstname, lastname, phone number
```
```
controller/Controller is base controller interface, which is implemented in ContactListActivityFragment.java
```

# Execution:
```
 ContactListActivity loads  ContactListActivityFragment. Which initializes controller and other views.
 ContactListActivity loads the jni library 'contactsSdk-lib'. As soon as fragment loaded, will call
 the native get contacts, addContact, notifyContact methods.

 native GetContacts will get the contacts syncronously. And will be loaded in the Listview in the ContactListActivityFragment.
 getContacts->native getContacts->reply fron native-> post to list with ContactsListAdapter.

 native addContact will add the contact in a std::thread with delay and report back to static method ContactsSDK->onContactAdded,
  This method will call the notifier method in the ContactListActivityFragment. And will show the toast after update in ui thread.
 ContactsSDK->onContactAdded->(ContactsListener)->onContactAdded->Toast to user.

  native notifyContactUpdated will do the similar call as above, where the last contact's phone number
  will be delayed and posted to the UI through the callback.
 ContactsSDK->onContactUpdated->(ContactsListener)->onContactUpdated->Toast to user.
```
##    Native layer

## Root: main/cpp

 Native layer is bult into two parts, ContactsCore& JsonLib in a shared object and ContactsJni as container shared object.

###  ContactsJni
    contactsSdkJni.cpp the glue code between java and c libraries. conversions from c to java contacts and other glue code. native api interfaces,
    callbacks for native code, which intern call java layer present here.

### ContactsCore
   #### api
        Core api to call, which will talk to mock webservice.
        ContactsCoreApi.cpp -- core api, called from JNI.
        ContactsCoreApi.h -- core api header file.
   #### model
        Contact.cpp/h Model for Contact, which is used in native and objective-c
   #### webservice
        ContactWebService.cpp/h mock webservice to 
         1. load contacts using json parser from string,
         2. return contacts from memory for getContacts call.
         3. spawn a std::thread for addContact and contactUpdated calls.

   #### JsonLib
    json lib from https://github.com/MJPA/SimpleJSON

#   IOS layer

## IacppI is the iOS project. 
```
    The static library for core generates 'contacts-core-lib' static library. It will be exported to ..\distribution folder.
    Add the files the static libraries under Iacpp/distribution/contacts-core-lib/lib/IOS and /SIMULATOR64 to Xcode project.
    Along with the header files mentioned above. And build the iOS project in Xcode. Check for any stale references. 	    

    UI is not developed in IOS. code is tested in from the logs.
```
# File details:
    Core lib structure is similar to the above in the project folders(not on disk, only for project visibility).
        ContactsIOSAPI - glue code for IOS.
        ContactsApiIos.cpp/hpp files to expose the interface with ios code. Similar to contactsSdkJni.cpp.
    ViewController.mm -- the code where this api is called and logs printed from here.
# Components used for this project---
    1. JNI.
    2. call back from different thread using std::thread
    3. attach the callback thread to the jvm to callback.
    4. static listener with listener interface.
    5. controller to manage these calls.
    6. a simple activity, fragment, listview, adapter, viewholder pattern.
    7. cmake to build static library, export out library, build with container shared library.
    8. Android app to test the calls and post to UI.
    9. ios code to test the calls and print to log.
    10. toolchain to build ios compatible library from android studio.
    11. attaching .a to the ios project.
    12. Making common build from Android studio with cmake with external task.
# what can be done further
    1. ui for ios, listview/tableview.
    2. junit and expresso recorder tests.
    3. Build fat library similar to https://github.com/assimp/assimp/tree/master/port/iOS . Where each arch was built and added to single fat lib.
